well welcome everyone to hot line League
episode 12 we've got so much stuff to
talk to you about today it's week three
of anything else yes it's all done we're
headed a week four we're gonna talk
about all that house golden Guardians
gonna move on now that they've lost
their coach obviously we're gonna be
talking about that there's all sorts of
crazy stuff happening League of Legends
scene hotline League starts now hotline
League is brought to you by omen by HP
there we go new so I did it oh my god as
though as a one-man content machine
producing machine this stuff is uh it's
very complicated of course I've dried
right now I'm so shocked oh my give me
another ten minutes together by constant
co-host Mark Zimmerman how's it going
mark pretty good I am rocking the new
omen headset yes yes you are
we'll be talking about that in just a
moment
tell me how you been I'm doing very well
had a had a lot of really good Warhammer
games this weekend saw some good LCS I'm
in a great state yep that's good I'm
glad to hear it
I there was a time where you would not
have said that after watching LCS um for
for the audience I'm saying it's good
and we should say of course as twitch I
was pointing out that yes mark is using
his new omen headset but the audio is
not from the microphone because of
technical issues we're having on our end
so that's that's the audio quality we're
getting through the show and then we'll
fix it before the next one you know I
like to start off the show with a little
bit of an anecdote and today's anecdote
was I got to go hang out with oddly Mays
mother and grandmother today and it was
hilarious fantastic people
I see how oddly became such a fantastic
person
but it was just great the stories that I
heard that she would kill me if I talked
about on stream and she was very
embarrassed the entire time it was
fantastic I thought that was her sister
and mother no that was actually Oh
grandmother okay gotcha could have
fooled me
yeah oddly I'm not the one making the
joke alright either way he's Chuck yeah
it was just it was just it was cool to
me it I'd like to interview her mom's
because her mom is coming to LCS later
this split and it's actually really fun
to talk to people who are involved in
the lives of these different league of
Legends figures in fact I wasn't gonna
say anything but I'll tease this out I
may or may not have interviewed double
this girlfriend this past weekend as
well and so we'll see how that goes i
think it's actually gonna be pretty
residentsleeper no it's gonna be good
that's that's the thing is I want my
goals okay so the way that I the same
thing is what happened with the vlog or
the behind-the-scenes that I put out I
want everybody to have one expectation
and then be surprised and so I think
people will say this interview is why
are you interviewing girl friends that's
boring it's actually gonna be pretty
good I'm excited about it any responses
okay
well two thumbs up let's get let's get
into the show maybe the best way to do
this is to just chat a little bit about
any of the interesting stuff that we saw
this past week and one of the things
that I kinda want start to show off with
before we get into collars just to whet
everybody's appetite and get people get
people thinking about stuff is that it
feels to me and marki tell me if I'm
wrong that we're just gonna start to see
the old teams rise again so Team Liquid
looks good clg's now went 0-3 and now
they're three and three
TSM coming back and of course cloud nine
is like pretty consistent since the
start of the split so you know do you do
you think that that's what we're
starting to see pretty much I don't know
about CLG as as much they had two wins
but they were both kind of still a
little shaky
[Music]
I'm so gonna keep my eye CLG but it does
look like they will probably be a
playoff team if I had to bounce a
betting man I would say yes they will
make playoffs
TSM I think will rebound completely and
just be pretty good again and then team
wouldn't see and I've been crushing
y'all split so echo fox is now one of
the older teams too
they like the kind of transition team
right yeah they're really the middle
yeah yeah cuz they were not an old guard
team but they came in before all these
new NBA teams yeah so what'd you guys
think oh I was gonna say I I agree with
Mark I think that based on what I've
seen so far
TSM is looking to me like and it's no
surprise as I think we've said since
week one they're doing the rebound
CLG yeah based on their games - I'm not
as convinced yet that they are gonna
necessarily be super strong contender
later in the season TL looks real clean
tiel's games look super nice c9 s -
generally I am kind of starting to grow
some concerns for echo fox even in their
wins some of the stuff just doesn't look
super great and I've said from the start
like I want to see what happens to that
team when they hit some adversity in the
road and they really haven't yet like
what do they look like after I know to
week 100 T I think is I think hunter T's
around
I think hunter T is not a pretender I
think they're a contender you when we
say contender yeah generally referring
to contending for the top spot you think
No okay I think they're contender leo
semifinals okay for sure like I think
they could very easily be a semifinals
maybe even a finals team someday
actually though has been like not
looking very good to me at all and like
you know I don't play league as much as
I used to and stuff for sure but I he's
just I don't know not looking like the
someday that I know hey Kobe you want to
put a veto on Travis eating we can do
production during the show we can eat
during the show I mean
if we want but look I might just head
out there and get like a burrito real
quick I'll be back in like 15 minutes I
don't have veto power this is between
you two the viewers want to see me happy
that's it league of legends not a muck
bond or whatever the hell you trying to
turn this into mark yeah let's talk
about something else
all right let's talk about some real
shit yeah okay some real shit well I
want to know what you guys think about
echo fox versus 100t you know like
longevity I think 100 thieves is weird I
feel like there's a bit of a skill
ceiling with that team that concerned
like Rio will never be the best at this
position Kody won't be the best this
position someday could have been but
he's ever since he's come to North
America fit so he just doesn't quite
synergized with the team's ever quite
right and he's not beating hearts or
anyone who is good in lane so it it has
like they they are obviously a calm team
that they can play the mid-late game out
fine but I just don't know if like over
a five-game series they're gonna have
the skill to match up with teams like
Team Liquid who like have all that
synergy and then they'll just booty
blast you to Shannon I think Becca Fox
is gonna keep it going and I don't see
hundred T's start to drop down okay
gotcha cuz I think echo fox has more
brute force
yeah and sheer star power and all that
stuff and i and i'm yeah i'm no longer
i'm hopping off the this team is gonna
explode cliche i I don't know if it's a
cliche after Derek's done it how many
times no no but it's a cliche because
literally everyone that's like anytime
anybody asked about the analysis of for
na LCS to split everybody's like well
you've got this team and this team in
this team and then you've got echo fox
and if I can just say I think that that
team is gonna be very good until they
explode you know I've said it a million
times that's I'm actually just mocking
myself whenever I see
sure sure so I think it's becoming a
cliche people are talking about too much
all right so if we want to talk about
like in-game issues beyond that like
Phoenix seems like he's the same player
he's always been I know I already pulled
a guy in so I'll hold off on this a
little bit he's always been mechanically
good in lame but then he just makes like
some boneheaded plays I think that's
cropped up a lot in the last week and a
half there botlane is good but they're
streaky so sometimes they just don't
look good at all and then obviously the
whole team is just prone to those kind
of like 5050 all in super hard plays
when they don't need to do them and they
lost their first game because of that so
I think there are a lot of things you
can say that they might struggle cos
struggles that's beyond just like we all
hate each other now
right yeah that's fair I don't know I
just feel like overall they've look
stronger than hunter team and maybe
we'll see that continue but you're right
maybe people will figure stuff out and
the other topic to discuss and I think
you know kind of the circumstances
surrounding it have made me I talked to
mark a little bit before the show and I
think the best way to talk about the
golden Guardian situation is to say look
there's a lot of conversation around it
I don't think this is the best form or
venue to speculate on how things went
another not all the facts are out and
like that so the best way really to
address the conversation I think happy
to talk about the second thing with
callers as well but it's more around
what happens next so yeah a lot sloka
dokgo not all the knowledge of what went
on is there but now golden Guardians has
to figure out what to do because they're
0-6 they don't have a coach or rather
they have the second coach has stepped
up are they going to keep that guy or
their other coaching option
opportunities out there and I think what
I would say is I'm really interested
seeing them try to pick up cop and mark
I'm very curious what you think of that
idea I don't know I mean I wouldn't mind
giving the guy that they got a little
bit of a chance maybe first and even
then like it's hard to evaluate anyone
with that roster I feel like they need
to make upgrades if they want to be
competitive
and if you're just looking for long-term
growth then like I think you should try
and find a coach who's known for that or
suitable for that which I don't know if
they really are that many so maybe cops
a good option but like the guy they have
was an analyst for the mortals and
fanatic when they were with mini ran
over doing those points and they had
those really dominant splits and then he
was on Phoenix one all last year I
believe so he s been around for a while
and I think I wouldn't mind giving you a
chance to see how good he does whereas
like cops I think more of a known
quantity because it sounds like they're
giving their whole team like a chance to
grow why not give the coaching staff a
chance to grow - yeah I promise you're
not making playoffs how and maybe I'll
dress this to Kelby Kelby how bad is it
for the team if they go 0 and 18 the
split and how much should you try to
avoid that right because and and here's
I think we can do this bit a big rant
about it or this big discussion about it
and then I'd love to hear from the
callers about all the stuff because I
think my thoughts are you know before
going Guardians came out and and started
playing they announced their roster and
they said look we're we're long-term
thinkers here and we are trying to plan
for the long term and we are a
development team so we're gonna pick up
these players we're not gonna import any
players and we're gonna try to think
about growing them so that they are our
good long-term and I think everybody at
points of time have said matt has
moments where he's really good and
should be better
Laura Lowe has moments where he's really
good should be better you look at Team
Liquid players in the past and like half
the league has been on Team Liquid at
one point in time and all seem to
perform better
after leaving Team Liquid so they were
good pick ups he bring in high who's got
all this leadership experience there's a
story there that I think is a good one
the boma is is that the culture and na
LCS because of relegation has created
this idea that like if you are losing a
lot you suck and by the way you probably
won't be around anymore right so I feel
like the audience has now been trained
that the team that's losing a lot looks
bad is one to like revile and just write
off because they're probably not going
to be around because they're gonna get
relegated and now we have a situation
where it
and talk about this weekend but I think
just even after the second weekend they
were zero foreign people were like
golden Guardian sucks that team doesn't
care about what they're doing like the
idea that if you can't win one of your
first four games your organization sucks
and everything is terrible I don't I
don't necessarily think that's the case
however it does I am shocked at like the
negative vibe around that team given
what their strategy is and it's and I
even feel a - when I look at them and I
suspect that you just like how long can
you go losing a bunch of games before
you have after win so my one thing
before kill the answers is is that
actually something that the team has
ever communicated because I know it's a
storyline we push the outside is push
but like is there a document or an
interview that I missed words yeah I
think I feel like if you look at the
interviews that hunter and Kirk did they
said that they were building for a long
term situation and rather than trying to
get you know all these these top-tier
players in Russia top tier talent they
were fine going with the long term and
that this kind of mirrors Golden State
Warriors strategy in the past of like
looking for rookies or undervalued
talents in all accounts I don't want to
speak too much because I'm an NBA new
but that I live very least I also know
that that kind of plays into the broader
GSW story so Kelby what do you think of
all that and also how badly does this
team like if you are going Guardians you
don't have to worry about relegation you
are you want to just prove your you're
like we're fine losing spring because by
the way spring doesn't really mean much
and if you don't plan on going to Worlds
like it means almost nothing at least
going to Worlds in your first year
because you're not trying to build for
the first year you're trying to build
for the second so how bad is it if you
lose all your games and how much you
need to avoid doing that if it doesn't
really matter based on your strategy so
it's a it's a couple parts here that I
address like having you know having run
CLG for a couple years there are times
in the house where it's like dependent
on personality you
can have a really really large impact on
what the rest of the sentiment within
the team is and who like just the makeup
of your orgasm I don't know the
personalities on all of that on the
whole roster really well I would hope
that hi and Matt from his experience
those two would maybe be kind of more
the leaders in that role to kind try and
kind of help keep the team's morale and
atmosphere up I know from you know other
players and and knowing hi that like in
general he's pretty good at keeping
things fun while being a professional
player
that being said golden Guardians has
looked pretty bad in six games and like
it's it's it's hard at a certain point
especially because these guys are all
really competitive people you don't get
to the pro level without being a
competitive person to like you know not
feel pretty shitty and I don't know how
they are in regards to reading and
interacting with sentiment but the the
other thing to that I think that is not
helping the situation is that I don't
see a lot of content or anything coming
out from the organization to kind of
help dictate the message and what's
going on aside from the typical Twitter
feed like I would like to see something
from them to address what is going on
with the team situation what's the
philosophy how are things changing
getting some opportunity to interface
with the players because right now the
only message that your organization is
sending out is their LCS results and
that's not a very positive message right
I would love to see something from them
that obviously even if you continue to
lose you can help tell a lighter some
sort of building towards the future side
of the story the focus on the North
American town and understanding like hey
if we're committed to this vision we
understand in the short term while other
teams are spending money to bring in top
imports and all these other things that
we are
to suffer competitively but people are
bought in right I'm selling the ideal
version of this scenario I don't know
that that's actually the way it is
internally but you know like everybody
is bought in we're okay we have we are
completely pushing into this narrative
that you have identified Travis right
where we're not afraid because of the
fact that relegation doesn't exist
anymore we believe that in the long term
this strategy will play out because
ultimately we want to see North America
succeed as a region and we want to
invest in the development of North
American talent and seeing them succeed
on the larger stage but there's there's
not anything like that going out right
now yet
Graner were three weeks into LCS these
guys just got formed as organizations
and now they've been struck the blow of
you know not having their head coach
around any longer but yeah I think that
to get back to answering your original
question it's probably really rough for
the morale of the team and their games
haven't looked really good and without
having without being in that atmosphere
I don't know how it how it gets turned
around yeah I mean okay well here's a
question for you
yeah if because mark which one of you
guys said oh yeah I think it's mark that
said maybe if your whole plan is to
develop talents you're also gonna just
say okay we're gonna start to develop
this coach as well Tyler I believe his
name is and and so you you stick around
with this coach alternatively oh sorry
there's a creature under my desk
alternatively you can say we can't go
0:18 it's just too much of a hit for the
fans and the team and so you try to
bring in somebody like cop or actually I
mean if I'm not also open to just what
else who else could they get as a coach
because they need to replace them right
so one is like do you do you worry about
this and you try to like just find you
know cops whole thing is that he can
like figure out the matter before
anybody else and bring out some picks
and bans or some crazy picking ban and
strategy that will help the team win
they're probably even bitter and the
best of one environment
so do you try to grab cop because you're
like we just need to get a couple wins
or do you just double down on the it's
it's okay or do you get a different
coach if you're developing this coach it
is super hard to have somebody learn
that by trial of fire if they've never
led a group of professional players you
can ask ZyXEL about this exactly I mean
or mark right yeah
mark weren't you basically in the
situation too it's pretty different
because when I joined I was the only
like staff member who had any
responsibility towards like in-game
things it was like I was the analyst and
like eventually I hired other guys who
were off-site and then like season five
Peter came in but for a while it was
just me and I didn't have like a huge
authority rule for most of season four
where's like this guy has been on season
five fnatic when they had dealer and
they had charge on that team that he was
on immortals when they had Dylan Falco
and some other people and Weldon I think
I don't know but he's been in like
structured environments before Phoenix
won as well so he has been around enough
leadership I would hope you know maybe
not living in during his earlier years
but he was pret more present as later
years like at the very least you should
have an idea of how teams run it's like
a complete trial by fire um
and so you know part of it is you do
eventually to get your hands down and
dirty where you're the guy and the
players look to you so yeah I mean if
this isn't the right time just because
the team is bad then like well who's
gonna hire you like we have a great team
but we just need this guy who's never
done it before
yeah yeah it depends entirely I think
you're right mark on how much he has
gotten to witness coaches leading other
professional players because that is
commanding respect from Pro Talent as
you know is the hardest part of the job
not necessarily your ideas about the
game or how you implement it or what's
your practice your methods are for
practice it is commanding respect from
the pro players and getting them to take
you seriously and listen to you and
Trust in your method in what you're
doing
I don't know I think it's interesting I
think we should get cop I think you just
can't go zero in eighteen they like that
would be I mean a three setting
situation like they set a record and the
ALCS I believe no one has ever gone
right mark I'm not crazy here no one's
ever gonna undefeated everyone's at
least anyone it 117 is the worst names
coast yeah I believe so
so if you're Golden State Warriors and
if you're these players
I just even even with the mantra that
the stuff is going to take a while I
just think you can't go 0 18 it just
sets too bad of a score and like even
even like the one in 17 or the two and
16 like that that actually does put you
in a better place and by the way if you
can get a coach like cop or something
like that who can pitch you 9th place
you can force optic down or you can
force clutch down by winning just a
couple games or maybe a key match
against them so so I have a question you
keep saying like bring cop in and do
this because you can't go 0:18 like do
you not feel like there should be some
pressure to change the players out if
that's your mentality no because there
and what if cop can't get you there
yeah if cop can't get you there I don't
know because I think it was too it's too
late to change like you bring in cop for
a week for maybe week five if you can't
get them for week four and then you know
that's 9 weeks like you can't you're
gonna have them for a couple weeks and
then you're gonna make a player change
at the very like by that point in time
it's just too late you're gonna go 0 18
and you're screwed but I think you know
they seem to be wanting to bet on the
players they were also you know they had
a coach in place they lost him so now
they're formula is like downgraded
because presumably they had a head coach
and Tyler wasn't the head coach for a
reason so now you bring in somebody else
to kind of like bring you back up to the
baseline that you were at before at
least that's my thoughts let's we'll get
we'll open up the lines use some colors
here in just a second but really quickly
I want to talk about something really
cool we kind of addressed this at the
start of the show as I throw their logo
up on screen something really really
cool happened
I it kind of goes back to worlds last
year where right beforehand omen by HP
and I spoke a little bit and they
actually hooked bro deny up with some
laptops to help us while we were
producing content over there then
awfully myself and Broden got to do some
really cool stuff with them at Blizzcon
as well and over the course of time we
just kind of started to talk more and
more and they'd be that turned out that
they are actually really big fans of hot
line leagues they liked the show and we
didn't have a sponsor and thus you know
one plus one equals two omen came in as
the sponsor and they're launching as a
sponsor for the show or for the show on
this episode so thank you very much to
them just a little bit of spiel about
them for those that don't know basically
you know a really cool thing is that
this is this is actually a grassroots
show it's a community show and normally
a really big brand like that doesn't
necessarily need to come in on something
like this because they can partner on
something much much bigger but in this
situation they really saw the value of
the show and the content and they wanted
to come in and help it out which is it's
really neat of them and I think you can
kind of look around at some of the other
gaming brands in the space and see you
know these guys might just go to an
agency and say yeah just buy some
pre-roll buy some banner ads or whatever
but since Ullman came in to the scene
into the eSports scene and really the
gaming scene because they were a
relatively new new brand in the gaming
world they've hit the ground running and
again not only are they sponsoring stuff
like this but they're also sponsoring
overwatch league and all sorts of other
situation teams around the world so it's
really to see need to see them coming in
and not just being like Oh eSports is a
big thing we're just gonna buy some
banner ads and I think in talking to
them they actually really have
competitive gaming in their mindset
whenever they are building all their
hardware and kind of figuring how they
want to approach this stuff and so it's
kind of neat in that sense they came
around at a time when eSports was
getting big they recognized that this is
kind of the future of gaming and this is
something they really want to support
it's it's kind of neat to see that level
sponsor come into the space and so
anyway again they sent me a bunch of
cool stuff including a laptop and a
desktop and monitor accessories again
mark is using their headset right now
it's really neat I'm going to say that
like a lot of times I think people get
gear and then they just take a paycheck
and ultimately they don't like the gear
I've been really really enjoying the
stuff that they sent me they didn't tell
me to say you know recommend this if you
know you have to recommend it I'm
recommending it based off of my
experience with it one of the neat
things was they actually had like a hard
drive bay up in the front of the desktop
so whenever I had my old computer I was
able to take the hard drive out pop it
in this little thing and slide it in
it's it's kind of a cool system and so
anyway yet I just you can know now that
whenever I'm creating basically any
content including the show that's gonna
be going off of almond stuff so I really
appreciate it sort of to celebrate this
by the way I'm gonna drop the link in to
chat if you're watching on YouTube you
can check the description as well
there's a giveaway that we're doing I'm
sure you guys have seen these before you
have a chance to win some omen
accessories so it's gonna run through
next week so I'll talk about on the show
next week as well but you can sign up
for it at there and this is kind of
their way of saying of celebrating the
partnership with the show and all that
stuff so again really thank them mark
will now get paid that's kind of a cool
thing
Kelby will not get paid because you have
to hit like a certain level of quality
as a as a Co saw this show it or to get
paid and you know he's working his way
there you know yes since but since I'm
not paid can I enter the giveaway yes
you can enter the giveaway so and it
would actually be hilarious and somewhat
sketchy if you win after the show yeah I
believe the winners are supposed to get
announced next week
so we'll find out if Kelby wins there
but again if you're watching the vaad
it'll be in the youtube description and
if you're listening to the podcast
you'll find it on YouTube or maybe I'll
try and tweet out a link as well but
I'll played it one more time into the
twitch chat as well so thanks so much to
them and I think everybody that knows
that I've been trying to make this work
independently
rather than going back to another major
media company can kind of appreciate the
fact that you know sponsors coming in
and really help it and make this kind of
grassroots content work so thank you so
much to Owen all right now that we have
ended our sponsored spiel for the
episode mark do you want to explain how
the callin segment works absolutely so
if this is your first time watching the
show we have a discord where people are
gonna be able to join to share their
opinions I'm posting it and chat right
now you're gonna want to go there and
when you get there there is gonna be
both text and voice channels you need to
join the voice channel so if I decide to
use you I can pull you down to the
waiting room and then in the general
text channel you're gonna post your
question or ideally your topic that you
want to talk about questions are weak
you want to hear your opinion so you
know let me know I think this seems not
gonna make it I think this player is
gonna struggle yada yada yada if I like
it you get pulled down to the room and
then eventually you get on air and you
get to debate the great kalbi may and
Travis cafard the great khali me by the
way Phoenix the firey and twitch that
says hey can someone and chat tell me
what Kelby does at the moment I've been
trying to figure that out for a while
Kelby do you want to explain for
everyone yeah I'm uh my title is
director of sponsorship strategy and
fulfillment at twitch what that means is
I'm the guy at twitch who helps out some
of our larger partnered team with
sponsorships that we sell for them so we
have a sales relationship with some of
the big teams that you know and I work
with teams on their sponsorship deals so
like I helped TSM out with Gillette
I helped TM liquid out with a couple of
their deals and I help evil geniuses out
with all of their deals yeah so that's
what I do what Colby does not help me
with my deals just to be clear right do
we want to get into that trap do we want
so cozy it's interesting it's like much
like you need to be a talented host to
get paid you need to be a competent
content creator to get paid so that's
why you know it's neither than we're
helping each other out
oh man thankfully helping out Inc
but a content creator Travis Kathy yeah
that's a camel included obviously no
Kelby I whenever I became independent
I asked Kelby if he would help me and
Kelby said agreed but he wanted a
payment plan that I did not agree with
what was the payment plan Travis he
wanted for every thousand dollars he
made me I had to play 1 hour of dota 2
with him one DOTA game I think you said
long was it one dota game I think he's
at 1-1 toda game per thousand dollars
yeah
either way they can yeah so you could be
you could be suck at longer an hour
again there yeah either way we should be
getting questions from the chat in just
a second but really quickly if you are a
sub it sometimes it takes a little bit
of think to think with discord so please
be patient but there's also sub chat for
you to post your question in and it does
give you a bit of a better chance at
getting pulled because we checked that
and it moves a little slower so there
you go
mark do you want to grab our first
friend for the day yes please it's 45
minutes and let's get some people on him
mark is sassy today we start really yeah
he's very aggressive to me it's like I
can't eat I really allowed to eat you
know I like when he asked me to help
beat oh yeah against you eating that's
coming fantastical too is on the show
fantastical 200 we can hear you well
fantastical you can you hear us
yeah I can now okay can we not say cuz
it's omen now let's let's just be
corporate now yeah
where did my been fantastical what would
you like to talk about on the show I
think that Phoenix is underrated okay
why where where would you put Phoenix
where do you think people see him and
where would you put it that's a good
point
yeah that's kind of hard to say just cuz
like the town level in general for like
all lanes across
the NA LCS has grown a lot recently so
like I don't know if number of positions
do well but I'd put them in the top tier
whatever the whatever that means like
top three uh no what are you put in the
top tier with him like beard probably PO
put Jensen in there um really hard to
stay on like the bin or the problem is
the more people you put in there you're
like the top tier is now becoming half
the LCS you know so yeah that's what I'm
saying is that it's just become so like
overloaded with skill like in the past
it was like you know beard was just
digging kids left and right and now it's
like I don't know they're all good so
would you agree would you say that a lot
of people don't think Phoenix can go up
against the best but you're saying he
can yeah I think a lot of people would
put him in like a second or even third
tier but on the second stream for Riot
Games they had given and how evil power
of evil and they were saying like
Phoenix just absolutely clapped him with
his his ear which he's always been known
to be really good with but they were
saying that he's like just much better
than they had ever anticipated and that
like a long way pobelter he's kind of in
the shadows with a lot of other players
and so I was just thinking like everyone
sees echo fox is this team of like hooni
plus star doc and just you know like
rolling over other kids but hooni has
always had like a really good mid laner
at his back to like have pressure
somewhere else on the map so that he can
go wild and do whatever he wants and so
that was like fibbin and pobelter in the
past and I guess you know fakers pretty
good too I guess and so like I think
Phoenix is really part of the thing that
enables him to like be able to go crazy
and he's like he's really undervalued I
think by a lot of people and if you look
a lot of his stats he's got crazy high
DPM and all sorts of other things so I
think people don't give him his justice
or whatever yeah we really worked with
Phoenix right
yeah I know his strengths and weaknesses
pretty well and I think the community
perception of him has always been a
little he's always been a little
underrated where people just think he's
not great whatever it is then I think
he's always been mechanically capable of
competing first the top top tier players
and I think he's having a good season
this split partially because he's on a
team with other pressure points and so
he can play as aggressive as he wants to
because he is a player who has like
clear weaknesses I think we're like his
mid lane vision control is like not
great and that got him in a lot of
trouble in the past and I think people
haven't seen Phoenix for a year and kind
of forget about that but when I watch
the games it feels very much that way
where it's still an issue and maybe
teams will start paying more attention
to him but if you just leave Phoenix in
the lane and just say go Lane versus
other guy he'll he'll typically Lane
even or better than that no matter who
he's against and so I think what the
Pope would a fibbin and power people
were saying something a lot of people
agree with right now which is Cobell
tier is like number one pretty clearly
and then Jensen bjergsen and Phoenix are
like the other people in that tier which
I would agree with mark do you think
that because I feel like when Phoenix
was on his way out of LCS he had
basically fallen from grace right like
he people were like there were moments
where people were like oh thanks is God
like the mega is here play that is maybe
the most highlighted in ALCS play well
now it's season five brah he left season
ended season six that's what I'm saying
as people remember there were moments
where he had big success like that but
by the time he was leaving I feel like
people were like Phoenix sucks and so
I'm kind of curious if one you think
that's true and two is the Phoenix that
we're seeing now you know the Phoenix
that everyone cheered for and that was
pretty good I don't think he ever
changed too much
maybe he got worse in season six at the
end of it a little bit but what happens
in league is like when you're on a good
team you just look much better
like they're not punishing you if you're
the only threatened a team like that's
where all the resources go that's where
they focus on and the jungler doesn't
have to be two places at once because
you're the only threat and so when you
end up
that i-team you look bad or you look
worse and so season six summer
teamliquid was like pretty bad like that
fatty darn rock was getting subbed out
they brought in like two random people
it was a I who was the jungler they
brought arcsecond who's not even a
jungler and then they brought in gin or
something in leaa that's that's that
famous part from breaking point where
people think Phoenix has a bad attitude
but he was just like who the fuck are my
teeth like Who am I playing with who are
these guys and so he was kind of like
you know on a team that didn't have many
other pressure points and like I said he
has a very I will dominate my lame
playstyle and if he doesn't war well the
fuse equipment what just saying he was
making it I really appreciate it
fantastic no I'm sorry I was a I was in
full tangent mode I didn't get it but
either way he was on a team that he
probably was playing a little worse he
probably had to deal with more internal
stuff anyone to deal with and it sound
like he wasn't particularly happy just
as a person at that point with like not
sure how he want if we want to do with
his career so I think a couple factors
led up to him looking worse but then I
think he's mostly done the same player
of the whole time yeah interesting okay
so final verdict here fantastical says
he is underrated market sounds like you
think he's always been a little
underrated and you'd kind of agree with
the statement yeah I think like if you
ever tell me Phoenix is the best player
for mids I'd be like you're crazy but if
you think you know he can go toe-to-toe
with any made individually that's a yeah
absolutely yeah
Kelby I know that you know you've taken
a break from the league in the past so I
don't know you know what your historical
references on Phoenix but I'm kind of
curious after you've been watching him
lately do you think he's pretty good or
do you think you know he doesn't deserve
to be up there with bjorgen and Jensen
and all those guys I mean so far ya know
I think marks assessment obviously and
his experience with him is spot-on and
this season he's looking great and all
of what Mark said and explaining the
context makes perfect sense to me okay
cool well thank you that's such an easy
call and the past we felt like last
week's episode be a combative caller
saying crazy stuff
thank you for no sighs - nice call yet -
as well a nice calm discussion and
hopefully things keep going well for you
up in Seattle oh yeah thanks guys thank
you nice man look look isn't this book
good you know twitch chats being polite
everyone's friends this is the kind of
environment I hope to continue to create
by the way we've got our ton of subs
that I got to get to referencing but we
don't have time for that yet because
sportsmanship has joined the call
sportsmanship great name by the way
just fantastic name where are you
calling from where he called from
sportsmanship see guy he did Oh guys no
I mean I'm here I'm here I'm good and
just like unplug the charger
okay that's fine I'm calling from North
Carolina I live on the beach in this
cool little university town nice Petey
Pablo Finn I'm not a P I don't know what
that is
Tamm nice only 90s kids will know man
I guess that's early two-thousands I
don't know crazy
sorry what do you want to talk about all
right so I wanted to get into the
stratosphere of the NA LCS and like
specifically the mid tier which i think
is interesting and not talked about as
much as the top teams and the bottom
teams where I think right now we've got
TSM TL echo Fox and c9 at the top you've
got fly quest golden Guardian synoptic
at the bottom and the right in the
middle of like the top four in the
bottom three you've got CLG 100 team
clutch gaming and I think these are
teams that aren't going to be able to
compete at all in playoffs with the top
four and they're going to consistently
be the bottom three and I think 100 T is
going to burn out towards the end of the
split - because I think meteos Ryu and
aphromoo all have problems with burnout
they might not make playoffs
CLG solo laners looking super
inconsistent you guys brought up earlier
how they have three wins but one of
those this again just fly quest and then
another once against either optic or
golden Guardians
those games don't really matter
and then there were no over one of
them's against echo fox yeah one of the
game against echo fox it was like 45
minutes of stalls yeah yeah one time and
they want it's like I wasn't impressed
yeah okay yeah yeah so sorry your mid
tier can you see your mid tier again it
was hundred three of Steel gene clutch
yeah yeah but the hundred thieves has a
better record right now than TSM right
but TSM's wins in their trajectory and
even in their losses where they have
these huge gold leads early on they say
more to me than 100 T is doing where
like I just haven't been like thoroughly
impressed with their games yeah I
personally agree with sportsmanship
Smith here okay for right now I might
not even clutch gaming yeah that's what
I was like West so at least from a
ranking standpoint so so I guess I'm
come on by like the end of the season
where I think towards throughout the
rest of the season I think clutch gaming
consistently beats fly quest golden
guardians and optic they'll take games
off of and lose to CLG 100 T and then
consistently are going to lose to TSM TL
echo fox and c9 well I put them in a bit
tier
am I crazy for thinking that optic could
be better than fly quest and clutch I
think they're like 1 to 2 moves away
like I just don't think that this roster
can do it like zig is getting bodied so
hard every yeah yeah it's like team pool
do you listen to arrows coms arrows coms
are hilarious you turn we're looking to
mic checks
yeah well that dudes like partially
crazy I'm pretty I love it dude I want
us I want to see that team one more I
think I think they could be a playoff
caliber team if like they just made a
couple of roster upgrades it's not clear
what those upgrades are given that like
we're partial way through the season
like maybe you're scooping down into
Academy but I think they won't probably
be a playoff team without something like
they might be like they're clear losses
up close you have given that the the big
point of contention here in the mid tier
that I personally see is a hundred T vs
CLG
which is interesting because it's
aphromoo versus you know is his formal
organization I think that those two
teams are very close in my mind ayat
personally I mean as the season goes on
sorry it's the season goes on I think
100 T burns out so I'll give it to CLG I
guess because like I said I don't think
they're gonna be consistent enough with
Rio aphromoo and meteos all having
troubles in the past with burnout I
don't see them sticking through the rest
of the split and then more than one of
them burns out it's gonna cause problems
with the roster all others will lose
motivation I just see that spiraling
down I just think it's murder to bet on
burn out like media this is shouldn't
burn you could argue media's shouldn't
be rat burn out because he just came off
of a really nice break and whenever
doublelift had a break last year he came
back and looked pretty strong for all of
summer I feel like you could almost make
the opposite argument and especially as
this team continues to show pretty good
results I would say like positive
results like I just don't I don't think
that these guys are gonna be like oh
this is so terrible not only that but
we're all stood in the best of one
system which the matches are a little
less I mean I know it's yeah I just I
know that is still like if you play two
days or whatever but I think it is just
less intimidating right it's it's less
prep I think for sure the difference
with the left and those other players I
just named though is doublelift even
when he burns out which he did have
troubles with a burnout according to
what he said still looks like the best
ad and na or close to it like at worst
second best
whereas like all of the other players
that are on 100t have burned out and
looked like hot garbage before like
reused how to split where he looked like
a bottom tier mid me afro moves like
nted one split like looked like really
really questionable in Lane and then
like meteos that's like retired twice
like I don't
and then like I'm I'm just gonna like
say one more thing and then right off
but I gotta go do some homework
Oh motive Guardians it's a trash org and
they should have picked up visit chachi
and Hill is saying in the offseason uh
because they wanted to come to na as a
duo they were looking for a team they
couldn't find one there's no reason why
this is chachi and Hill is saying or
still any you and Matt Lohr low on
golden curtains but saving them out but
all right all right can ask you can ask
you want things personal ship all right
what's up so you you think clutch gaming
will take the
playoffs but if I had to bet right now
I'd put it on CLG barely making it over
100 tea and clutch gaming and I think
there's no way they get out of
quarterfinals don't you need one more if
you're grabbing the top oh yeah so like
100 see and clutch gaming will fight for
whatever the other one is and whichever
one of them makes it won't get out of
quarterfinals but 100 see or clutch
gaming for like that final slot it's
really it's I've we've never had
somebody hang up on us during the show
Travis wanna keep talking Beale there's
like a lot of questions here this is
good and there you're just bailing on us
um I'll call it next week well well okay
mate we'll consider taking it I love you
thanks dude he'd already muted it like
by the time by the time you said thanks
suited I was say goodbye he'd already
muted the mic and the headset like you
said I think he heard the parents coming
up the stairs
you think I gotta do homework yeah
something that's crazy I've never seen
that before I don't
I'm I'm flustered right now all right so
do you need a minute to read some no no
we should we should discuss I mean we
should break down what he was saying so
first off do we agree with that the idea
that hundred thieves is like they're
just gonna burn out because I kind of
disagree with that I think that that's
like really big leap to make because I
think there's like really extenuating
circumstances for most of the
situation's he talked about and I don't
even think that like afros poor play was
because of burnout or at least he never
said that like have I just been that
afro suck during that time like players
have ups and downs so I think it's just
like a it's the type of thing where he
wants to come up with the idea
he's like created an argument or like a
reason to fit the argument
I feel like prolly as a coach and I
don't know this I'm just saying this
based off of sentiment and feeling I
feel like probably as a coach would be
really good at helping combat burnout
because of his like personality and
persona and I think also if nadeshot
stays really engaged and it keeps
grinding like he is I can tell you from
Excel in like wait
- like what's of dignifying self signify
I was just an expert no no I was gonna
say I could say from experience that
when players see the owner around
working hard all the time it also helps
motivates them and that's what I was
yeah yeah yeah anyways no I wasn't gonna
say owner I meant when I say owner I
mean like yeah yeah leader yeah you're
going a different direction I was when I
say so dignifying that was not a hot
thing no no I was saying I was saying
because I used to be in the room and
like working hard all the time
oh yeah there's there's like a team
runner role like we don't it's
interesting because we don't use the
word GM really any sports previously we
just said owners but that's what makes
sense in a world where like a lot of
people don't own the teams anymore but
there's like a team runner yeah yeah
well except for like people like hunter
are more than just managers oh so you're
including hunter I thought you were
saying we're like the day-to-day people
who are like in the weeds of them shot
as a day-to-day of guy I think that's
more probably and like the other support
stuff yeah but yes anyways we're off
topic
I think the burnout thing is semi
worrisome but I'd be more concerned
about that in summer than spring like if
these guys get burnt out of spring in a
franchise on a new team that's doing
alright then they should retire yeah
just straight up if you can't stay
motivated through a season or a split
donation probably retire yeah not to
mention sorry there's a dog growling at
me not to mention the fact just I live
in a forest not to mention the fact that
the interviews that I've done with these
guys I and I believe that sometimes
people just say this but I believe it
like they all seem to really like each
other like I get the feeling that the
vibe on that team is like really
positive everyone having a good time I
don't think that's an environment you
burn out on you burn out on the teams
where like nobody's talking because you
I mean it might burn out a different way
you know yeah what
you know so I don't I don't I don't buy
that I think hunter T will contest and I
don't I don't think that if they are the
mid-tier like they will be fighting to
stay in the top tier and they'll be
competitive I think it'll be I think
echo fox and energy I think have the
potential to be the most interesting
stories of split we'll see oh you got
somebody yeah
just stall for a second because I got to
read some people but take your time go
down there have a conversation with them
see how they're feeling pick somebody
who won't abandon Travis Barry here we
go we're gonna do this we're gonna do
this as a speed thing chrono has resub
the consultant huh Tamaki lol scooter
105 vanilla bear scrub Greg seat 397 nod
polygon a sub opt SM $25 is first to
zero week for TSM told you bandwagon
fans have no turn chill I'm so ready for
the satellite link little Asian 33 his
sub mellow jello recept
see rubik's subbed real foxy one resub
two haven't tuned in a few episodes but
I can't miss Kelby my episodes real fun
hey Kelly I'm a fan and we'll get to the
rest
very shortly Ben Fisher 22 is joining
they call Ben Fisher I feel like you've
been on the show before is this this is
true no it's not true I've just seen you
may be in the chat before you're very
recognizable because I think I'll have a
Ron Paul picture of this course yeah
yeah but a long time watch your first
time caller you know Kay were nice man
how old are you I'm 20 fuck why are you
at 22 at the end I made it when I was
like 12 I think it was the only it was
like the Google recommended when I put
in Ben Fisher Fisher recalled from I'm
in Charlottesville Virginia right now
okay what do you want to talk about uh
yes so pretty much I feel like the the
whole idea of scouting in league seems
like kind of BS right now and it feels
to me like it pretty much is just about
what team picks you up how successful
the player ends up I'm pretty curious
what Kelly's thoughts are on this wait
well I mean so you think that
scouting doesn't exist and people are
just attributing the successful are you
saying people spouting ability based on
no no errands outer or development
specific yeah it doesn't seem to matter
too much like which player I feel like
you could put any any rookie into TSM
and he's gonna do he's gonna do really
well he's gonna end up being successful
right whereas you can put any rookie on
on golden Guardians and they're gonna be
shit you know mmm you have that you have
the inori's and the and the mic yongsan
Phoenix one with a little bit of pop off
but but it feels like every rookie that
gets picked up by by it by these like
talk to your orgs and maybe you could
say that it's because of good scouting
but it seems like a little bit too good
to me
it seems like it's mostly and and Mark
was talking earlier about how you know
players look better on better teams it
seems like if you're put in an
environment to succeed you'll succeed
and if you're put in an environment to
fail you'll fail and that the actual
scouting itself doesn't seem to matter
that much so I think that I think that
you're kind of you're kind of right
except that you will if you are any
that's very I think that um maybe maybe
what you're trying to say and please
correct me if you feel like I'm going
down the wrong path what what ultimately
will happen is the the better
environment that you are put into which
may be different for each person and
personality type by the way depending on
how you're being developed what
development style you react to and how
the other personality is on your team
work with as far as teammates you will
achieve your best result quickest and
ultimately that can affect the long-term
impact of your career depending on what
you learn in at what point of your
career you learn it and if you build bad
habits and you know you get burnt out on
shit and other stuff like that and
obviously if you get put in a bad
situation I don't think necessarily
you're doomed to be a bad player but
it's certainly going to put off you
finding that situation where you become
the player that you should be now I
think that some people
have shown a really good aptitude for
finding talent and being able to
identify who will actually work in their
system and what they value as a player
as opposed to what most people do which
is like you know to be frank the only
people that can really identify and pick
up professional league of Legends talent
and put them in a situation where
they're going to succeed are people who
have a very strong understanding of not
only the game but male social dynamics
well because we have all male Pro
players right now not to say that
females couldn't exist in the pro scene
but like I think that Reggie has been
the best example of this up into this
point where he has pretty much
exclusively picked winners and done so
in situations where you could have had
alternate higher profile choices that
would have been what a lot of GM's
probably would have taken is the easier
more secure move and I think that it's
sorry let me finish real quick I think
that without Reggie there is zero chance
that TSM ends up at every spring and
summer finals I think that whenever
things go rocky that guy has such a
fundamental core understanding of the
game and knowing how to win that he is
always the person that comes and get
involves with the roster and gets them
put on the right track and he is the
single most important development
component to any North American League
of Legends organization that is existed
up to this point like I say for Korea
Europe or whatever but no I said go for
it so I mean is I gonna go said look at
Kelby being self gratifying again and ya
know can it can't agree more so I agree
Reggie is like a huge factor in why TSM
is good but I think his roster decisions
are some of the easiest fucking moves
anyone has ever had some
because literally everyone is dying to
play for your org due to its size and
you just eat the cream of the crop they
have never developed a single player
they have exclusive Eric is a huge to
move already
he was already bio frost I would maybe
grant you to hold on hot sir was already
crushing on gravity they picked up your
after he was already crushing in Europe
like I I heard they work he was he was
getting panic kills he was already top
three he was more he was warranted
you're out development then just like
are you winning or are you not right
well right so like beer was a top 3 min
in Europe with froggen and expect a in
their prime like he was a good player
already and don't get me wrong not
saying they don't improve them but they
don't pick guys out of a hat and make
them work let's see 9 has done to an
extent so I I disagree the one player
that they really took do you think that
Jack is the guy at c9 who is picking
these vaa no I never no I'm not saying
yeah yeah so like but glebe is one where
they they try and it was a bomb it just
failed horribly me must boy and like oh
they get they get turtle well that was
after he already showed that he was a
very confident player multiple times and
then they they stopped him in after
chaox was being idiot or whatever it's
like I disagree that TSM scouting is
good I think that they have the
reputation and ability to get whoever
they want once they stand out which is
what they tried to do again with Mike
Young and I'll unit I mean do you think
there's really any players that you
couldn't put into like this year's TSM
roster that wouldn't be successful I can
you know what I mean yeah but would it
matter who they pick yeah I think
because then you're left with like well
who's making it good like I think you
can say a great example would be like
TTL has done a good job of identifying
players who are good and then they sign
them but the environment is not super
conducive and then when they move on
they start doing better yeah and so like
that's a team where like Dom picked out
a lot of those players he was a guy who
plays a lot of solo q he'd talked to the
coaching staff that this guy stood out
he was doing good shit I liked him
and so like I think you can scout
players and you can develop them but I
do think it is very contextual to not
only how good the team is but how good
they like environment like he'll be was
saying right someone where do you think
that environment stems from the TSM
organization like who is dictating that
down absolutely Reggie yeah yeah yeah I
absolutely agree that like they have a
great environment there I just don't
think that they have taken like a rookie
and like shown that they scouted them
sure I would still make the argument
that Berg is like when you create a
European and we have seen other top
European players come over to North
America especially admit a lot of them
and nobody has turned out to be a shade
of what burek has done in the NA LCS
generated a lot of them haven't had as
much time Jensen no Jensen's good but
Jensen is not bjergsen I would argue
yeah he's better right now
Oh historically absolutely York since
list of accomplishments yeah yeah yeah
you know what I'm gonna say and Rob has
been real young when he picked him out
and yeah he was he was a flashy talent
you know somebody who looked really
great not not gonna say like he was
completely unknown obviously but he
didn't take froggen he didn't take xpk
he had the burden of responsibly on his
shoulders to have all of these choices
it is actually harder when you can pick
from everybody no yes
no you have you have a plethora of
options out in front of you and you now
have to decide like they're all like
which is actually the superstar that
you're going for when you only have so
many people to choose from then the
amount of mistakes that you can make as
fewer I think your your liquid example
would prove Kelly correct right because
they they pick all of this great talent
but they could never make it work right
because they're not picking they don't
have the correct scouting talent like
he'll be saying which is personnel
scouting was good their environments
were bad right right right right but
that would imply that that picking for
talent
or like that there's more to identifying
than just yes you have all these players
that you can pick from right taking the
best well sure I'm not saying that you
can throw synergy out the window but if
you go up to a buffet and it's like hey
put a bunch of good food on my plate and
you're at a fuckin top-tier buffet your
likelihood of getting it right is
substantially higher than if you're at
some fucking bargain dollar club and
it's like hey try make a good appetizing
meal there don't like I fundamentally
disagree that if you if you have to sort
through the best talent in the world
quality it's more difficult than
building a good roster of all-na players
great know you want for sure you will
have a you will have a stronger team but
to to pick the generational talent which
I would define bjergsen as right now
especially for the West it is it is
harder when you have everybody out in
front of you and you have more secure
bets and he went for the riskier pick
and he panned out the way that he did I
miss problem is like Ben you you want to
say it's all this or it's all all that
or it's not this at all
but in reality it's it's all these
different factors together like a team
like TSM has a lot of advantages because
they're in a certain position but then
they've gotten themselves to that
position because of you know just
inherent skill sets that are available
to them and resources that are available
available to them certain teams are
better at scouting than others I think
cloud 9 is a really good example of a
team where like they do great scouting I
mean we were talking about this ahead of
time ever before the LCS even started
people were doubting liquorish and I'm
like I just don't doubt Jack like even
if Jack I don't know how he handles his
scouting Shirley saw him sitting there
watching all these different right so
let's dream czar whatever but that guy
consistently pulls random people and
then grabs them and and I I just I feel
like yes there are times where teams get
lucky there are times where scouting is
good there's times where in certain
environments allow you to succeed and
there's certain at times where like it's
it's not you could take the best player
and put them on a shit team and they're
gonna struggle but you can also be a
great team and scout someone and and
you're just gonna scouting that's why
you tend to be a good tiny
I didn't mean to say it was all one or
all the other or I just I think that the
scouting skill seems to be a little bit
overrated it seems like team environment
and constructing a positive one seems to
be drastically more important I think
you're yeah I think you're right and
you're wrong there and that I actually
don't feel like people talk about
scouting talent too much I mean maybe
I'm crazy and I'm missing stuff but I
don't feel like this is like a big
conversation that has has taken place in
the LCS partially because you've seen so
much turnover in teams that like the
amount of teams that can say we're good
at scouting a robotics couting a
probably limited to just like a handful
secondly I think I forget the second
thing well so what I'd say to jump in is
that there's multiple kinds of scouting
- they really talent development
scouting which is like great we have
three rookies in the entire league right
now like what do you do you know you
have ando licorice and arguably solo I
think that the only three so like how
much talent scouting really matters
compared to I understand this person's
personality in my interviews with them
in my discussions in my due diligence I
found that they would probably work well
with these other people yada yada yada
which is where I think you can say 100
thieves scouting seemed pretty good that
these guys all get along well whereas
like I don't know fly quest or maybe
optic you could say this guy he may be
seen worse but who knows what their
options were as well thank you so much
for your call
this is actually a really interesting
topic and I don't mind you being a
little hyperbolic with Louie that you
said it because I think it's something I
haven't heard too many people talk about
before yeah thanks for having me guys I
love the show of the content keep it up
Thanks thanks Ben
sorry Ron Paul's not an option for you
anymore have a good one guys
yeah all right yeah I know the the thing
that's really different about scouting
in any LCS in particular versus like
traditional sports for example is like
so many of our players we polar from
already you know professional leagues
where we have so much tape and you know
somewhat to what degree they will
compete at the professional level
whereas traditional sports you're
pulling from college or you're pulling
even from high school sometimes and it's
like it's actually understanding how we
think this person will acclimate
to the professional atmosphere here all
right uh where we need to start coming
up with some sort of my Templar Stan
what's wrong but Templar standards for
the names of the people exactly
reference but Templar is cloudtemplar
but but Templar what are you going from
I am calling from Michigan
all right you could ask him what his
name is - and we wouldn't have temper
what would you like to talk about other
show today I uh so I think all five or
six dragons I can't remember how many
total all the elemental Drake's should
be shown in shm select four LCS and
team should be allowed to try to pick
around that whoa well this is super
inner that's interesting this is a mark
question okay so you know I've seen it
on reddit before I think Lottie
or maybe someone else talked about it to
you and then there's a big discussion as
a result so in the same way that in some
games you can pick a stage you would be
picking the the two teams would be
settling on what dragons spot no you see
which one's spawn right and yes I think
I think the like easiest one the easiest
like plan you could do is if you see
three infernal Drake's are gonna spawn
you could pick a really aggressive team
and just go for dragon control and if
you get three Drake's you just kind of
win automatically uh so first off
there's four elemental dragons let's
just uh clear up in a more max oh no I
meant like oh could spawn yeah I believe
it's say five six I was guessing there
where there's some amount yeah we know
what they were ahead of time yeah yeah I
don't even know how to think about this
so sorry go ahead
no you guys go first um the poop poopy
pants guy in this one the Debbie Downer
okay well I was gonna say though the one
positive that I can immediately identify
is that it helps eliminates some amount
of rng from
game and more information I personally
am NOT a huge fan of orangey elements in
competitive sports competitive eSports
but obviously tons of games have them to
varying degrees and I don't know enough
about the game anymore to understand the
dynamics of how knowing the Drake lineup
would affect how heavily you're skewing
your comps and picks and bans and stuff
like that and if it really forces people
into playing certain stuff versus others
but I don't know it's it's somebody else
talking to think I'll say
well I'll avoid whining and talk more
hypothetically about it before I be sure
and abettor downer but I would say it
would likely not change the outcome
except in extreme circumstances so if
you're getting anything like any mix of
the drinks you're probably not adjusting
your game plan too much if you see three
infernal dragons I feel like that's the
time where you would maybe change your
opinion on it what if really what about
from okay so maybe you don't change the
draft what about from my Garou n-- or
itemization standpoint do you still get
the same stuff but okay maybe you don't
pick a different champion lineup or you
don't ban certain things out but when
you're making ruined selections or item
selections in-game do you do a different
build because you're gonna get I don't
know again like I'm now saying it or
idiot when it comes to the stuff I can't
even say the word so I'm just curious I
would say the runes and item choices are
too hard or too unimpacted relative to
champion identities in the game like the
legal actions at its core like is about
the champions and so you can you can
build different things and you can pick
different rooms but like it you can't
make a late-game champion and early game
champion through a really itemization or
room choices without like going way off
the path and just ending up way below
the power level of it say yeah early
game champion built early being so yeah
you also don't know who
gonna get the dragon well right so like
I guess the idea would be like okay I
see three infernal dragons in a row
suddenly Callistus priority goes up
because she's strong early game if she
plays on the bots i demamp and she has
good objective control and maybe a new
news priority gets up for the same
reasons and I think you you would maybe
see you some situations like that and I
guess the point is like even if it only
affects one in 20 games that one game it
could make it a lot more interesting I'm
gonna start talking about strategy
because twitch chat is now bullying me
so what what are we what are we lose by
having it visible like what is how is
this worse the element of in-game
reaction and one of the main reasons so
if you think back to when the drake
change happened it was in a state where
there were four dragon buffs and those
would go up at the same time every
single time really the first drake was
like that you got was damage or
something and then the second Drake was
movespeed then the next rake was this
and then they kind of broke them up into
the four elemental dragons and made them
random so that when people played the
game it didn't feel like that they were
doing the same thing every single time
right so the change is more of a Solek
you change to increase game diversity
versus pro player balance and why would
are you still have diversity it's just
scheduled diversity right yeah so I I
think I don't think it hurts the game
that much and it would be sometimes fun
to see really really crazy drafts around
them yeah if the game is gonna spawn
three infernal dragons in a row and just
kind of like win the game for whoever
got first blood anyways that at least
like teams to be aware of that - yeah is
there a chance that you like it is fun
for viewers to suddenly find out what
the next dragon is gonna be and for the
casters to talk about it as we find out
about it is that would you you lose that
by having it just sort of like pop up
during champions like I think that's
pretty pretty mine
I don't think anyone's like whoa I don't
think that's what Templar what do you
think of this conversation do you have
anything that you you think we're
missing well I just only brought it up
cuz I'm not an analyst either so I just
I've been thinking about it and it just
it seems like something that would be
interesting to do just to change the
dynamic of I feel like dragons a lot of
times can be a little unimportant and
this could bring a little more focus on
to that so we're right the reason I'm a
debbie downer is because it's never
gonna happen because I had to leave
based off my limited guessing how the
game is coded is that this stuff is not
decided and Lobby the only game so this
guy's feed into programming right and
the way that the game information works
the only thing that gets loaded into the
game is what the client tells that it
needs to do so you would need to take
Drake generation from a in game
computation thing in the engine there
and you would need to put it into the
client-side calculations which is
probably a pretty fundamental change and
not something that is impossible but it
just seems pretty unlikely if you start
looking at how the actual programmatic
implementation would come in a lot of
work for a very little game yeah yeah I
mean the change was made pretty late
into like it's it's it's not super
recent but it's not like something that
was implemented into the game originally
right and so like when the game launches
the client basically says these are the
champions that are gonna end up in a
game load those required assets load all
the other assets that normally come in
with game and you would start saying
like all right now you only need to load
these dragons and the sponsor if this
order I don't know it's not impossible
for sure it's just I don't think it's
how the game runs currently you know
that makes a lot of sense but somewhere
thank you so much for the callin and no
problem
thank you guys great name you know we'll
just that's the brand you're building
for yourself in my respect thank you
very much thank you how's that sotl
brain going Travis yeah well I'm des
great and decorating it what I'm
retiring it I'm Sun setting it something
like that healer healer healer donate
five dollars you can probably get a
bubble for five dollars asthma
five 10 subs miles per day subbed Neelix
subbed jizzing girl
girlish menace to month scruffy dumped
matcom sub hey i don't okay
i'll be used to work with them we've got
slant who previously i said silence but
we realize it's actually slant on the
show right now back welcome back
yeah I had to come back yeah that's okay
thank you for being a sub where he
called from Tampa Florida Tampa Florida
that's right are you East Coast College
are you excited about the fact that and
I don't know very much about oh that is
exactly what my topic is about oh okay
great well yeah why don't you talk about
it yeah so I I personally like the whole
I mean sure like it'd be quit school
it's in Miami because that's only
flowers from me as opposed to you know
California which is you know a lot more
than four hours but I also like it I
think it's interesting in a neat top and
neat and neat like idea that took me to
this really small theater you know
making like the spring finals not as
much about like just peer competitive
gameplay which according to the
interview at youtube.com slash user
slash stay to the league Travis gaff for
now but thank you oh sorry
but listen no one's done that before I
respect you know but but I watched
interview and you know he was talking
about like how they want to you know go
with like the culture of Miami I think
that and I think the lot people don't
like it because it's you know far away
from you know California and sat in the
Midwest where both people are and then I
did a small theater and that's bad but I
think that that's like well we'll make
it cool it'll make it like more I don't
know like I don't think homies the word
but it'll make it more you know like
about like your journey to get there and
MS I like a stuff I don't know so you
you like you know people do you want to
attend the event I'm on yeah I'm
definitely PI gonna go okay well you say
definitely probably but there's only
tickets available right so tickets are
mostly
couldn't be like you know what do you
say hey I just what about price for me
like I mean like I will like wait I see
up until I don't care you know if it
opens that like exam or something that
I'd be well okay but the problem is
let's say it opens at 10 a.m. and you
don't need to worry about too much but
the tickets are sold out within a second
and you can't go are you still happy
then that's in this venue I think I
still go and you know cuz I go to the
fan meets no I mean like not like go in
the theater but let go and like I think
that just having like post I think that
watching it online I think that they'll
have content like the drive series you
know like where they went to all the
peoples like journeys into the LCS do I
think they would they like a possibly
they could do that but for teams you
know like look at this journey to Miami
and look at like like and I can you know
like the spotlight to make them in Miami
you know like looking to like like the
cool landscaping stuff yes so you think
it's cool because Miami is cool and
it'll be cool I mean because they it's
you know they travel every year for the
stuff so saying it's cool that they're
traveling isn't particularly like a
unique situation for them
but it's you know saying that it's
saying that it's in you know a smaller
venue I think it's the bigger thing that
everybody's talking about yeah I don't
know I I think that that's a big issue I
think that like the guy said that you
know that the summer finals is the one
where like everyone's like trying actor
now that the people aren't trying thing
found summer final it's like we're
really like matters you know that's like
the that's like to make it to Worlds and
that's you know to like show that you
like are the best team in North America
over the entire year and that strength
finals is not necessarily not as
competitive as spring fouls but they can
do they want to do more like and I think
that like in Chicago I didn't go cuz in
Florida but I watched and like you could
tell off smaller they just felt more
like personal you know I felt like more
like about like the players and like
like them
this one is what is interesting to me
because I expected to get a call tonight
about this and if you told me that
somebody was calling from Florida and
let's say I like this in a smaller venue
I would have been surprised because I
think everybody's concerned that a
ticket
won't be you know cert almost certainly
this thing is going to sell out it'll
sell out very quickly and there will be
a lot of frustrated right at posts being
like I have been playing League of
Legends since before it even existed
and my family's only ever had one dream
since we moved to America in 1995 and
that was to attend illegal legends of
live event and this is our last chance
to do it because of some reason I don't
know the the thing is is a lot of people
gonna be disappointed about this I don't
think it's that big of a deal because
spring finals historically has sucked
from a venue perspective because the
third and fourth place match sells like
shit and so you look at this event and
it's like you're looking around this
giant arena and it feels like it feels
like it is half empty or or less and
having empty arenas just look so bad
feels really bad so that's why I'm happy
about this I saw the Chicago Theatre I
was at the Chicago theater I also
thought that felt cool the problem is is
that you know ultimately I get to go
regardless so I'm not in the the
situation of the fan that can't go
because I can you know Travis go after
my way in but other people can't do that
so I can I can understand why people
would be frustrated but I think this
makes a lot of sense for Riot especially
especially in a year where I think they
need to be thinking about creating like
a sustainable system and by the way
renting out a giant arena and then
selling it to you know selling only half
the seed set it at a price point that
allows all your fans that want to go in
the area to go is not a great way to
make a lot of money can I share my
thoughts yeah I love the choice Miami I
was there for ultra roughly the same
time of year great at that time of year
in my experience it's a very cool city I
like it a lot great people I love
smaller venues for eSports events like
theatres like of this size I've been to
a couple events in this kind of
atmosphere it's really great especially
for noise and crowd volume and stuff
like that
and not only that but Miami is the city
where they got that that sign out front
that says welcome to the city where the
heat is on all night on the beach to the
break of dawn so I mean bang-up job
excellent selection I'm just looking
forward into cocaine okay moving on I
mean the thing I like is that it matches
my aesthetic for all my content so I'm
already talking abroad and people like
you've been caught up in it oh do we
should do a live one
Oh Travis you should fly me to Miami
let's do a live one yeah fly me to my
eros grab people off the street and ask
them to give how it takes conversation
this is this conversation you should
have had with me you not live on air I'm
gonna do it with the pressure of the
twitch chat that is here now we're doing
it live is silho Reilly we're gonna clip
out that segment then we're gonna do a
live we'll talk about it are you even
are you gay even free before the like
I'm free have no idea absolutely zero
ready to kill me you don't want to
travel I'll go to Miami maybe we'll do a
Kickstarter or something like that but I
just I'm worried about the technical
challenges it is actually easier to just
buy Calvi a plane ticket then I'll see
you I'll help you sell it to omen okay
about why we need to take the show to
the next level it might not work well
but we're gonna try okay I'm a great
salesman no I didn't actually running a
show hello my name is Kelly Mae and I
would like you to fly me and my friends
to Miami it's great
well okay whatever I'll think about it
maybe maybe we'll set the patreon goal
or something I don't know I'll figure it
out I'm just worried about the
production because if it goes wrong
that's no boy no don't be don't be a
worrywart all right well
so at least we're shooting it and then
we can put it up later yeah and we'll
just you know I am you stoked Oh
Kelby you work for twitch yeah shouldn't
you have resources available to help
make something like this happen I mean
oh I need to talk to write about it but
I'm so serious like we can do it after
like I don't care well be done after we
can talk about how that's not making any
promises live over there that we can't
keep around the finals
what's new I am even being disingenuous
right you know wait we still have a
caller on the line slient hello you're
still here I didn't want to say anything
to ruin you guys it's like you know all
right so we're just all in agreement
this is awesome it should be fine that
they did it in the theater fur and it'll
be really neat yes okay yeah yeah all
right
well there you go that was easy Thank
You slient that was the easiest
conversation you've ever had
I just I just Luke by the way who used
to live with me works with me ah who I
just got a facebook messenger
notification that just popped up from
this says I can tech produce to live in
Miami hotline lead thanks slient for
really prom
I'll have a good one
did Jack get my my Will Smith reference
I I'm sure they did
Michael or donated thank you Michael
Laura leviathan1 when one glitters
frozen fire fifty-two Michael are also
resub silver bite and shoe the mighty
thank you to those wonderful people
still mark before we give this just you
know Luke just committed he messaged me
on Facebook and said he'll tech produce
the hotline League live from Miami
no I gotta fly Luke and Kell be there
you can't fight the tide Travis
continuing with our very mature color
names tonight we've got bards Thresh
light on large Thresh light what would
you like to talk about and where you
come from
okay so I'm calling from Georgia and
like I think Miami is great for the
aesthetic and everything but for
everyone who's in the southeast
like any World Finals the closest city
to me in Georgia was Chicago and like
Texas was also Chicago which is like a
16-hour Drive and then so we're like
okay maybe a little give us something
next year and then they had the finals
in Vancouver in Boston and then they
finally do one and it's Miami which is
the tip of the Pantanal presses sorry
you're in Texas no I mean I said George
acog oh okay but like now it's in the
panhandle of Florida Panhandle like the
tip of Florida which is about a 10 hour
drive for me and I'm in the next state
over so like people from Texas Georgia
like all the southeast we're kind of
like being screwed over by riot and we
have Texas A&M who's a huge like
collegiate Georgia Tech is a huge
collegiate like all these places we're
just getting skipped over so you said
you're like 10 hours from Miami yeah
okay how how many I'm curious how long
it takes to get from Tallahassee to
Miami because I've heard that that's
actually even further than San Francisco
to LA you probably don't know but so I
got a buddy who goes to you I think
Gainesville and we looked it up because
we're thinking about it yes and
Gainesville's a little farther south
it's an eight-hour drive okay
so that's kind of my point is you're
disappointed because there's this event
happening also wasn't talent isn't how
far away's Tallahassee from you if I can
go 120 down that don't go 120 the legal
speed limit use Google Maps like what is
Google app say you don't need to look
but I'm just like you have a friend
lives in Gainesville how long does it
take to get to him to get to him it is
about an eight-hour drive fucker so I'm
just saying like you've you had MSI
pretty close to you right
but even then that was only one in 18 my
every na final has been pretty much
above the mason-dixon line they'd never
had anything so well we're bringing the
mason-dixon line into this it's a good
reference point I highly
I mean not for no matter where they pick
a lot of people are gonna get skipped
over have they done any redundant
locations Madison Square Gardens
yeah Boston but I mean you got huge
markets and like Texas and you could do
maybe DC one so what I've heard what
effort is a rumor and and this is just a
rumor is that Texas has a lot of tax
complications involved with doing events
there
that being said obviously there have
been other eSports events that have
taken place there so I don't know what
the kind of specific complications are
for riot but I've heard again that there
are are one reason why Texas is not an
option is because or they haven't done
anything there's for tax complications
it's just a rumor take it as a rumor
please I don't want this to be all red
it is Travis cafard says LCS is never
coming at axis because of Trump so well
I don't know but that's the rumor that
I've heard I'm tweeting that
and as for stadium-sized I think they
could go definitely bigger cuz they
haven't done anything down here in a
while yeah I think they can't go bigger
the problem is is are they gonna sell at
the third fourth place match because
they did something in Vancouver and they
hadn't done anything there before and
they had never done anything in Vegas
and like this exists don't sell out.i I
personally believe that the reason why
they're pulling back on spring finals is
because it doesn't sell well especially
for the third fourth place match and
that this year with franchising and all
that stuff you actually have a reason to
be more financially sustainable and
reasonable yes which is not the answer
Japan wants to hear but that's that's my
my sense are they combat Achatz like if
you buy no they you saw them
individually yeah okay that makes sense
then so maybe maybe you could argue like
yeah you should you get you buy a to
date we only sell two day passes and
then they're 120 bucks a pop or
something where they'd normally be 60
and then you ensure that like the first
day sells out but then again you're
minimizing how many people can go to the
event because now you took potential
40,000 seats and turned it into 20,000
and you you ensure the first day sells
out but you don't insure first day
attendance yes yeah I'm not saying you
do like make it today but you do like
maybe a discount for it like for the
Sunday for the final is like 80 bucks
and then but for a two-day instead of
being 160 it's only like the problem is
then you risk losing money again because
maybe there were people that gonna buy
tickets to both days a full price and
now you're discounting them you'd have
to really figure out like okay we are
going to you do the math and you figure
out how it works out that way or
something I don't know and maybe there
are extra ticket complications also all
these venues have different ways that
you need to do it and certain venues are
limited certain ticket it's like such a
complex situation that I I can imagine
it being it being a pain I'm just saying
with it Miami they better have some
really good aesthetic stuff because
everyone else is just gonna be upset
from down here yeah I think it will be I
could understand why people are
disappointed and I feel you like this is
why I rallied for Canada for so long
because I was like where the NALC us
we've never done an event in Canada
you're just screwing over ton of
different people I think yes like right
should be thinking about this stuff a
lot I think the other thing to remember
is we don't know what the player map
looks like and they tend to target areas
where there's a lot of players and just
because you might feel like there's a
lot of players in your area you don't
know actually how many people you know
maybe you're just in the big group
that's been prolly what's that probably
it's from Marietta yep he doesn't even
live there anymore though you know yeah
that's not yeah I think either way Bart
specially thanks for coming on and also
all six for offering a counterpoint I
think which is yeah thanks Steve
situation yeah no problem
have a great evening yep yes well you
need Travis just a couple seconds all
right you can talk to are you yeah not
Kelby donated five dollars and said
Calvi is absolutely the best part of the
show he should 100% get paid and a lot
more than Marsh I'm just amazed someone
could possibly bring so much to anything
as Calvados I wish I was Kelby but once
again sadly I am NOT Wow it's very
suspicious thanks Brittany the player
Lloyd has served david the medic subbed
weed has hummed ladder slider served at
Marv to five six thank you everyone for
the support a lot of support today on
the show which is very nice to hear Rico
suave is back hello Rico suave where you
calling from Rico suave Rico I was I was
just talking to all of it Rico suave
Awad
come on we need okay well I'm casting
back you're gonna have to hopefully
he'll against this what suffixed you can
bring the next person I was excited for
that - Rico Swami's been on the show for
I'm sure had a good thing to talk about
I don't know how much you guys can hear
the barking in the background do you
hear that it's not it's not super loud I
was literally just talking to him yeah I
don't know what happened it's okay cuz
we got the hippy Steve subbing in for
Rico suave on the show hippy Steve
you've been on the show before I believe
I think i subbed earlier like during a
different show but yeah first I'm
calling well you know what I remember
you from that sub as I remember all subs
and thank you for being a sub hippy
Steve what were you calling from uh
Toledo Ohio Toledo Ohio alright and are
you also upset that there's not an LCS
finals in your location uh no when it
was last in LA I went to Chicago and
then the fungal in Italy okay cool all
right well what would you like to talk
about on the show today I think my topic
was regarding dope and high specifically
okay it was that high would be the
fastest player to turn over to like get
like an upswing and wins and results
during this split based upon how high
plays and like relative to other mid
laners in LCS right now sorry he's can
you explain what you mean he'd be the
fast like because he's not sort of like
a baseball like wins over replacement
sort of thing and like just sort of his
play style because he plays more toward
like sidelines like
if you have to consistently losing sight
lines like golden Guardians does high
does not do as well because he gives up
a lot of resources to try and start
snowballing them and if they're not good
to begin with then they can't really
take advantage of this sort of thing
like hi is I looked at the stats he's
almost a level down at 15 minutes every
time and and things like that and he is
mechanically worse and like sort of puts
his jungler on a back foot because if
your mid laner isn't so essentially
you're saying hi sucks well I think he
fight he's not a good fit do you think
he's suck yes I don't think he sucks I
think he's a terrible fit for the team
okay I'm gonna let mark is while I
handle this animal well thank you the
other thing you're saying is that they
should when I if I remembered unless I
pulled two people who were talking about
hi you're also saying that they should
replace him then not just that like yeah
you think if someone could take your
point and be thinking that you're saying
oh hi is wasted here get him on a real
team but you're saying that hi just
shouldn't be on there at all from golden
Guardians perspective and they should
get someone better yeah
hi isn't good for like their theory and
building na from like the ground up sort
of thing like hi has been on teams
before with younger players and no one
has ever talked about hi teaching any of
those players like how to be a leader
how to be a color like every time hi
like was sort of this sort of like
golden child held in high regard like he
left and then the team sort of fell
apart communication-wise had no
leadership and things like that like he
never was able to create a replacement
for himself so if golden Guardians is
trying to start something sort of like
in their warriors shadow like he's sort
of like a stopgap he's like he's like a
team that's almost there so they just
get a guy that can can like hold and
like push other leads further I don't
think that's why they got him they got
him because they thought we're gonna
take a lot of players who have
underperformed and in some cases are
rookies and we're gonna bring in like a
proven leader and
you can like help level up a team so
that you know like a year or two from
now
golden Guardians you know Matt
definitely those guys or in some cases
may really replace them they they've now
sort of disseminated highs leadership
and veteran experience across to the
other players
yeah but hippie Steve has some I feel
like some pretty good points here about
how like high played with that cloud9
roster for a really long time before he
departed and when he departed all that
we saw was like none of this was like
picked up by the other guys through
trial of osmosis it was just I don't
know maybe it's personalities or not but
he doesn't have a history of I see what
you're saying is that it doesn't there's
no evidence that he's he's helping level
up the team it's like rank he's there or
he's not and the team performs well when
he's there but if he lasts there's not
going so getting him it's like not
necessarily good because it's not like
he's gonna bring raise the level of
performance on the team in the long term
right and doesn't teach other players to
like be better what if the last team the
previous teams didn't expect him to do
that or that was not the strategy and
they employed and so golden Guardians
knowing that this is something that they
can do are able to sort of direct the it
this way where they come in and they say
hi we're hiring you because you're this
person this is the role we see here this
is how we expect you to handle stuff we
want you to help cuz hi I don't I would
imagine
I probably sees his glory days it's
beyond him he's not trying to be on TSM
or cloud9 and when world's highs like
not that's not what he's about anymore
he's maybe he likes the idea of like
raising another group of talent or
something so just because the point
being just because he didn't do this in
the past doesn't mean he's not capable
of it and maybe this is something that
they talked about before they brought
him onto the team I think it's
interesting I think the whether or not
he can teach this team or not who knows
it's also does that as though I wants to
do and then is that also better than
trying to develop a North America
are you getting more value of hai
supposedly teaching these guys and you
would get over just getting a young mid
laner who will also improve with the
whole team also I don't know if we get
necessarily because it's not like
there's a goalie well would be another
na talent though either like it could
have been it could have been selfie like
there was selfie rumors of making an LCS
team this Mormon that Jesu ki guy
someone's got to be in na scouting or if
someone has to be for na but scouting
Europe cuz that chazuke you guys have
beast a little one that guy but nope no
one in North America's Scouts new
European players they just go for the
TSM strat wait so they look good and I
him yeah I mean as Kelby often has said
EU LCS is the Development League for na
LCS so if that's the thing then the
whole point of them being in the UL
speedy LCS is that you're proving them
so that you can pull them over analysis
yeah and we really appreciate EU LCS for
what they've done for our region it's
great farm system ok so let's bring in
this topic here hippie Steve asserts how
I might not be the right player for the
strategy because he might not be able to
help lead the team to long-term success
by disseminating information that kind
of thing right hip EC foot and well yeah
I would say that's that's kind of what
I'm getting it is that high isn't good
for long-term growth as a close to like
a rookie or somebody much much younger
yeah and his current play style doesn't
fit the team because he needs strong
signs to win yeah and his lanes are not
winning so it'd be better to have
somebody maybe like froggen or some shit
sitting there and can maybe carry the
game for you off of his individual
performances it's an interesting
perspective I definitely I think it's a
question where it's like well what I
guess the only the or would know if he's
providing enough growth to justify it
because if not then like what do you
what are you doing with him yeah what do
you do he's not you just grab like
froggen or somebody else or mark I mean
you were suggesting maybe they just
should just
like a the problem is you you were
suggesting maybe they find another
rookie or new midlaner I almost feel
like at that point in time you've got
especially with tip locos departure
you've got like new head coach all these
players that need like to level up I
feel like you need some sort of fountain
and a knowledge in there to like help
these guys get better yeah there needs
to be like the person for a fan to latch
on to and if you get rid of hi the only
part I don't yeah I'm not worried about
it from a fan perspective I think it's
more just like internally you need
somebody who's going to help lift
everything up right what was that was
that coming I said but she should be
yeah I would say also the two things I
say is they should have a leader who's
growing these guys and I guess you could
argue that should be locodoco based off
is like arguable success which you see
you but then he's no longer there and
then I think who is there gonna be the
person for fans to latch on to it's like
well who are they latching on to right
now cuz it's not really anybody this is
why you get caught hashtag guild cop
golden guardians golden cop hashtag
guild cop and these are some bad
hashtags but I appreciate hippie Steve's
conversation starter okay so let's just
wrap it up Marc do you think that they
that high was the wrong decision here
potentially and that they should grab
somebody else and maybe : Guardians
philosophy here is flawed like I said
the only way the only people who would
know would be that work if hi is not
actually contributing to the growth of
these players you're already a tenth
place team why not take a chance and
learn about give someone else the
experience of cleaning LCS I don't know
what they're getting out of him if it's
not growth and like you said play style
it's on he's winning them games either
kalbi half hi coach get a new mid I
agree with what Mark said have hi coach
get a new mitt yeah yeah interesting
what do you think of that hippie Steve I
don't know if high a person to do that
but I that's more along the lines of
something that I would like to see with
them
all right well thank you so much hippies
Steve for callin thanks for being the
sub and looking forward to talking to
you in future episodes yeah thanks guys
yeah all right I was actually a good
conversation starter it was not really
we've had really good like people keep
blowing my mind on the show all of them
because we haven't had any TSM fans on
yeah it's weird every show Oh mark left
I'll just say this every show has such
different vibes like sometimes you get
colors that come in and they can't
articulate their argument and it's a
really weird argument that's hard to
understand other times people come in
and I'm like that's something that no
one in the industry is talking about but
maybe they should be you know and
sometimes you got like chill stuff maybe
you got aggressive stuff sometimes chat
is calling for blood that happened last
week all right
yeah man I shouldn't watch last week
he's got intense patient 3:05 resub he
says if you do a live one in Miami I
will be there plus I get to talk to
marks again PS turtle SP has subbed and
not not Kelby donated $5 I said I agree
with not Kelby lb should be paid way
more than mark also Monty is the best
Dan though this is a man of good taste
well no no this is this is a different
man or woman because it was me this is
this is a person of good taste not Kelby
there is not Kelby this is not not Kelby
who is agreeing with not Kelvin so the
first person had good taste this person
also rocket surgeons on the show where I
could surgeon where you calling from
I'm calling from North Carolina North
Carolina Pablo fit what are you what do
you want to talk about I want to talk
about how Academy teams have the Academy
League favors winning teams the Academy
League favors like like the Academy the
teams that the tournament they're
playing in favors winning teams yes
I'm searchin I'm happy to let you know
that you are the first person we have
found that cares about Academy League so
I'm happy to talk to one of you all
right
well I just I feel like in a world where
it
that are struggling have their Academy
teams and when and undoubtedly it will
happen people start getting subbed in
for their Academy counterpart it creates
a stress where the starter is supposed
to be mentoring this person and like
teaching them teaching them all their
secrets and this kind of stuff and how
to be a better player but you don't want
to be telling everybody your secret
sauce when you're competing against them
for a job
we're like the TSM Academy team has like
I don't know I don't even know who's on
don't they have like brandini and Greg
and like shady and those stuff like I
don't ever see a world where I have no
idea those three plus mr. Raleigh's and
blaze all of it was the number one all
future TSM players will be coming from
Europe so we don't really need to pay
attention in their academy team
exactly so like I don't realistically
see a world where they're gonna swap out
brandini for hauntzer
what like for some of the struggling
teams like golden Guardians and and so
on like I do see a world where if Matt
starts struggling he gets swapped out
for a special or Jenkins in the top lane
if Laura Lowe starts to struggle and it
just it creates a stress that top teams
don't necessarily have to deal with
it's a weird discussion because what I
would say is Academy is better for
losing teams because when you suck and
your players might need to get swapped
out at least you have some knowledge
because you have an academy team of who
you're getting where is like previously
when it's the best-of-three system
people just got new players to be subs
and then they would just swap them in on
games until they find one that's better
also that's very common for all sports
in the world that are team games is like
there's a depth chart and there's people
behind you who are hungry to take your
job and you're supposed to be better
than them that's why you have the
starting job well of course but it's
also like in football it's also a far
larger roster as opposed to just the the
top like the starting Tyler the starting
jungler and then there's a once up
yeah of course but like in basketball
let's say there's five players on the
court and there's 15 people and like you
only get subbed out because you get
tired but some sometimes there are
position battles and there's swapping
between people like competition is
healthy in almost every industry
generally speaking competition is good
and I understand that it sucks to had
that stress and it would be better if
you didn't have that stress but the
reason the good players don't have that
stress is because they're good that's
true okay I don't know where else to go
with this conversation no that's fair
let's hear all - I'll handle it don't
worry this is where I come in to save
the day mark do you think while we're on
the topic of Academy and specifically
about the variables between bottom tier
Academy teams to talk to your Academy
teams would you rather be on golden
Guardians Academy or would you rather be
on TSM Academy I don't think there's as
much of a difference as people think
because if golden Guardians wants a sub
who says they even have to go from their
own Academy team if I want someone
format I'm picking up zeizel I'm calling
cloud nine yeah yeah like like I don't I
think the way like I don't think Academy
is like this League where you're
necessarily just developing your own
inbred talent and like you are teaching
them their stuff like from my
understanding the most integration
between the two teams is like a round
cloud nines level which is like they
scrim them one day a week for that whole
day and then they also warm them up but
like generally speaking the point of
Academy is not to like siphon off from
the main team but write a few separate
teams and the Academy gives players who
are only known for their solo queue a
place to play in a competitive setting
and the reason that's better than
Challenger is because challenger was all
about getting into LCS now that doesn't
matter so you just pick the brightest
roughest diamond that you see and hope
you can just polish him up to be like a
legitimate player and you know it does
help that you do get knowledge from the
main team but they do exist in
relatively separate ecosystems yeah but
the the starting roster is not taking
their time to help development these
Academy kids okay I mean they might do
some screams for like you know
they do help them but they also have the
reports like now we can hide our pics
and we can try really weird shit for his
Academy that would might bring me out
like Jax jungle was something that only
cloud nine has played in North America
and in their Academy team played it too
so you reckon that was a pic that those
who kind of came up with together and so
there's value there for both play teams
rocket surgeon thanks for calling in I
think Brian Oh again to be here as Kobe
said we haven't talked too much Mike
Adamle teams in the future I think it
probably is worth a discussion because
it's sort of like what is the value of
all this
these Academy teams you know you they
they all fight for a thing that doesn't
really matter in the end like are you
training people for your team are you
gonna pick up other people so I actually
really appreciate the conversation think
what did they win nothing there's a
playoff with the tournament and I'm not
sure if there's a prize pool there's not
thank you so they're literally playing
for nothing yeah they're playing on
rocket thank you thanks for oblem see
you guys later see ya company that's
what d-league czar and other sports like
what are they playing for yeah yeah no
no I feel you but but there isn't that
same path that exists right now I feel
like tell CS that exists in other sports
with the amateur leagues by the way Rico
suave says that they fix their their
issue so I'm gonna throw them directly
in here we'll see what happens okay Rico
suave you've returned
hey yes sorry I had some app problems
it's okay welcome back to the show I
remember you from the past can you
remind me where you're you're living
these days where you're from New York
City New York City that's so I thought
that's what I thought because we I think
we talked to you about like CLG and MSG
and all that stuff right yep yep and you
are a twitch up thank you very much for
that what do you want to talk about in
this week's episode um since we're
talking about teams and stuff I thought
we could talk about um how much Blaine
would you give a coach for their team
failing so I think I'd like that
did you hook up a failing couch with
sorry go ahead
the reason I want to talk about it is
because I'm seeing eSports as a sports
perspective so as a coach you try to
train to mold your players and try to
guess prepare them from any kind of
situation from being like like to 3,000
goals behind to okay this is a person
you're facing they're most likely to do
this that and third and this is how you
contract with them and you know kind of
using golden Guardians as an example
they went oh and six and at some point
you start asking okay is it really the
players themselves or is it the coach is
the coach not preparing them enough you
know like how much blame do you think
you would give the coach for failing
team can I answer yep so I think it
depends you can have certain situations
where and like probably only the people
who are closest to the team in the team
atmosphere are able to make a good
judgment call and that's where you need
a good GM is somebody who can look at
this situation as independently and
unbiased as possible and say are we
struggling here because the team is not
performing well or the coach is not
supporting the team in the way that they
need to in order for the team so like
perform well sometimes regardless of how
good the coaches and Travis I'll bring
up my favorite example to you well yeah
you ready sometimes for instance
Montecristo when he was coaching fake
news was not only a coach for the
cameras fake fake everyone knows behind
the scenes that when money was out in
person with us when we had this this
boot camp and he came to LCS for a week
he had a tremendous impact with the team
when he was a remote coach it was very
difficult to get players to listen on
skype and you know all this different
stuff completely ineffective but it
wasn't Monty's fault it was a product of
the situation for him being remote
versus being in person and in person he
had much more success so it really
depends
uh obviously doesn't matter how good
like could coma come into the golden
Guardians
and make them a top team in the NA LCS I
think it would probably be extremely
difficult and unlikely and you know
could the reverse situation happen
essentially we're like you know loco was
the coach of you know SKT two years ago
and as that team still won a
championship I mean they probably still
have some pretty good success regardless
of whether or not comas coaching them
versus you know local coaching them but
it's very very difficult to know exactly
who is impacting and to what degree they
are impacting they should be unless
you're involved in that situation
exactly and that's why when CLG went to
Korea for their boot camp it came back
but but I would argue as well that that
was a product of not just like yet there
was there was there was personality
issues and other issues even outside of
coaches and players that negatively
impacted that boot camp but yeah no no
it's it's true it's true for sure but
yeah I think you look at a coach and you
look at the team's expectations on paper
and how good they should be and if they
vastly under perform or vastly over
perform that's probably when you start
looking at the coach as well as just
general improvement like I think that
the greatest hallmark of like coaching
is like is this team improving generally
anything and sometimes it's beyond their
control like the meta shifts and you
take a step back or like some new super
team gets together and now you're not
like the top team anymore like that
stuff happens but it's pretty common to
like like optic how good are they really
I don't know I would not a call
I might just hello yeah just cut out for
a second I don't know why I did that
but you know like optic is not a team
that people put in the playoffs but if
this team comes together it makes the
playoffs and looks decent there I think
people can say like hey Savi team this
guy that we don't know much about seems
to be a better coach then I think people
would have given him credit
all right so what something happened we
said Monte Cristo's name three times in
a row which is how you summon Monte
Cristo to appear he's on the twitch at
the surf thing wildly overblown Seraph
walked out of after a scrim for ten
minutes to cool his head and he also
said he wasn't completely ineffective
remotely he was mostly ineffective
remotely so there you go he's correcting
you yeah yeah I think Monte appreciates
the sentiment of what I was trying I
mean without unless Monty wants to get
in the call I would ask we're ramping up
I will have Monty know in the future if
he wants to come on but I think if we
get him on for three minutes and wrap up
the show the twitch dad's gonna murder
me so I'd rather get him on in the
future okay
but I do have a question I don't know if
enough time has passed
Kelby for you to be able to talk to the
contractual relationship you guys had
with Monty but I'm very curious I don't
think we had a contract I think I just
did oh man shit I should remember I
think you know we paid money I just we
just sent of money because my question
just said of money I just say use open
his door and there was a cash a stack of
cash with a seal G bag this is this is
2011 2012 League of Legends okay I don't
want to get anybody any tax trouble here
but yeah he says we have to misrepresent
his coaching with three minutes left
it's true if my question was when the
priest Monty's coaching hello he's
flavouring me but he is a patreon
patreon supporter so Thank You Monty
very much for your patreon support but
going back I never wanted to ask them
about since we both have coached
problematic ad carries I wanted to do
Peter is a wonderful darling child how
dare you ever slander him and say that
he would be problematic sir
my bad you're right the question is
contractually when Monty reverted from
being a real coach to coach the cameras
did you guys bring his number down or
how did how did that work out and we
I imagine it went up well no longer for
actual coaching now it was for the
camera it was a production it was a
production rate is that the higher so
actually it was more it would cost more
to have it be the coach for the cameras
then that's right that's what I would
assume are you having a laugh is that
what's going on
no do you at you have something you want
to talk to Monty about mark no no I was
what about Rico Puerto Rico is just
sitting here may I share a fun fact with
you chainsmokers also from New York
because we are talking about the
effectiveness of coaches and how much
like blame you put on them for things
that come wrong I wanted to ask him
about given that he was also in a
difficult team environment from what
people have said and obviously he wasn't
room he was remote for the majority of
time so maybe less of the onus is on him
but like when things go wrong in a team
how much of that is like structural and
coaching because I feel like on the
outside a lot of people like to say oh
well this team blew up the coaches
should have had a better handle on it
and sometimes it's like well I mean that
that player is just how that play right
yeah and so like as someone who has that
first experience I wanted a chat with
him about well maybe we'll grab him on
in the future because it does feel like
that's a long a long conversation but I
want to thank Monty for being a patron
also I think Monty or rather to point
out my sub he's I don't know if he's a
sub yet but hopefully someone will give
that man a sub yeah there's one thing
Monty wants this even more money going
to be in his name but Monty and I have a
lot in common you know we are both
incredibly popular esports figures on
incredible groundbreaking esports
production sponsored by omen so i think
you know that's that's the situation
Huntly like an overwatch league starts
on time though that's that's true that's
to was supposed to start in 2017 anyway
Rico you have anything that where you go
you have anything you want to say here
at the end on the topic
I guess throw my opinion I think the
coach you at least get to Beebe's months
before at least 60% of a tease
performance
that's it yeah that's good thanks for
wrapping up the show Rico and thanks for
being a sub always great to have you on
looking forward to talking to you in the
future
all right and now we are we're out so
let's wrap the show mark anything that
you want to say well the cola has gifted
us up to Monte Cristo yeah they're all
great emotes you musicale be arguments
there's a there's a you now have a calve
emote so you can while you're while
you're casting over watch li you can
spam Kelby into the chat what the big
plays come out yeah anyway sorry mark
back to you I don't have too much to say
this week sucks I have to go through a
bunch of emails to hire a new another
editor for offline TV so I've just been
going through people's reels and I need
to do interviews and you're probably
shoot this week I found two that I like
out of about thirty I've gone through
about fifteen feel like the same person
for like two groups of people and then
like about probably five to ten or just
outright like why do you an email me
speaking by the way of the same people
some of them definitely not kelpy
donated $5 and said I agree with not
kill B and not kill B that Calvi
definitely needs to be paid as much if
not more so than mark and would like
this donation to specifically go
directly to Kelby oh I gotta say this
the people who watch this show in
general seem to have very good taste of
either watching this show they can't
have that good a taste yes I mean it's
Monday night at 10:00 p.m. on the PST
like you said half these people are
probably asleep there's probably like 10
people in chat actually scrapped jack
has subbed public all of course gifted
the south to Monte Cristo and rx dealer
89 has subbed we're gonna get to Kelby
in just a minute really quickly as
people start to drop out I'm gonna hang
out for a couple of minutes extra on the
show so if you want to hang out and chat
with me for just a few moments
afterwards and then I'll probably host
awfully who I think is probably honest
streaming in a moment Kelly what do you
got for us I just wanted to give a shout
out to fan Ron Jenkins who is oh my
premier no Dean Yeti can run last week
or two weeks ago I think Travis how I
didn't know but Kelby did it first and
then you did it again last week I feel
like it's been three weeks of this guy
am I wrong I might be you know just well
regardless
I hosted fair on last week as what
happen yeah you should be appreciative
of the fact that this guy is a great
total war Warhammer - broadcaster if
you're into that game check him out him
and LH TV best total war Warhammer to
broadcasters for sure you'll learn a lot
about the game watching those guys Monty
says he was only watching the show for
you Kelby there you go I only watch
overwatch League for money so where
where there where are even yeah thanks
everyone for watching if you didn't
watch it this past weekend or during
like where the show was starting I heard
it check out the behind the scenes that
I did with I put it up on Saturday over
on my youtube channel it's behind the
scenes of Travis gafford's inhales yes
even if you just watch the first minute
you should I think you might enjoy it
Broden who is producer I had worked with
him since Yahoo he and I are trying to
kind of come up with some cool premium
content that kind of sits alongside the
massive amount of LCS interviews we
produce each week and I'm kind of
wanting to show off just how good this
guy is that doing stuff and I think you
said what's that
whoa Emily just some she did she did
actually real foxy gifted us up to Emily
oh no one actually subs this channel no
but no famous people is they know how he
tracked everything we serious but broad
and I I think he's just super talented
yeah hopefully that's the first of a
bunch of different types of kind of cool
unique content we're gonna be able to
put out and and really it's kind of
exploring what can we put out that is
different from what riot and the teams
put out and so I think that that
behind-the-scenes thing was something I
could
we have come from an individual like
myself so hopefully we could see more
stuff like that I get in the future but
shout out to produce what mark this it
can only come from me I only come from
like anyone you anyone you're on the
analyst test the State Farm analyst test
work anyone could've made that it was
good I would say like Bruns got some
nice shots going on in there yeah
Oh aim the camera also I loved in the
doublelift interview where he talked
about rodents aura he that dude
absolutely has an aura does he yeah you
don't feel you don't feel the chill well
maybe you're maybe you've become like
inducted into it all right I think you
smell the aura more than you feel the
aura
I feel the aura be like I show up that
guy he's just chill he's got the smile
lines like how's it going and you can
tell he just runs really cool
yeah all right listen I wanted to praise
Broden here at the end now you guys are
praising him so I feel like you know
what
I will say one thing for Travis although
I say many things for Travis he picks
the best producers consistently yeah
everybody likes the problem is everybody
likes the producers more than they like
me that's sorry spill the history yeah
but but that's why it's good that you
have such a great eye for them because
no one would if you didn't have good
produce like if the boosters weren't
good who would ever talk to you it takes
a big person to pick somebody more
likeable than themselves to work with
them especially when they're an
on-camera personality the hippie Steve
Dinah $5 and said see you guys in Miami
for the live show and go clutch gaming
go donated for 20 and said I found the
CG social media guy I told him what you
said he said he likes chainsmokers so
there you go oh that was a good that was
a good burn right back there
fuck real Fox he also gifted a sub to
counter logic gaming welcome counter
logic gaming to the party anyway thanks
everyone for watching this has been the
I think episode 12 I believe and also
thanks to Ellen by HP for being our
first sponsor ever on the show yeah
thank you very much
hotline League